Git.md, before:

## Commands

### Creating a new repo

`mkdir newrepo`

`cd newrepo`

`git init`

`touch README.md`

`git add .` (to add all files in directory to index)

`git commit -m 'Initial commit.'`

### Branches

#### Checking out a new branch

`git checkout -b development`

#### Add all files, then commit changes

`git add .`

`git commit -m 'Added files to development branch.'`

#### List all branches

`git branch`

#### Change branches

`git checkout master` (or whatever branch you want)

### Merging

Merge branches (this example is merging development branch with master branch, make sure you've checked out the master branch first) -

`git merge development`

### Cloning

Make sure you're not trying to clone a branch on the remote server that is already checked out, otherwise you'll get an error.

**NOTE:** This dosen't matter if cloning a bare repo.

`git clone ssh://user@loe.org:/git/repo nameofbranch`

#### Make changes, then push back to server

`git add .`

`git commit -m "Made changes"`

`git push`

Or you could `rsync` all files between servers, then init a git repo in the directory holding the files. Then push any changes to a new branch on the remote server -

`git push user@loe.org:/git/repo -b newbranch`

### Git log

Print past commits - 

`git log`

Print a single line for each past commit -

`git log --pretty=oneline`

### Checkout specific commit

#### Example workflow

Use `git log` to find a specific commit -

	commit ba6af9e85675a974917a86488bc81fcd3252d1a8
	Author: jl <jl@leagueofevil.org>
	Date:   Mon Oct 31 23:09:28 2011 +1100

	    Added Irssi.

To checkout that commit, `checkout` using the commit hash  -

`git checkout ba6af9e85675a974917a86488bc81fcd3252d1a8`

Or just using the first 4 characters (or however many characters you want) -

`git checkout ba6a`

### assume-unchanged

Mark a file so git will temporarily ignore changes to it -

`git update-index --assume-unchanged nameOfFile.txt`

To undo - 

`git update-index --no-assume-unchanged nameOfFile.txt`

List files. Those that are prefixed with a lowercase `h` are marked as `assume-unchanged`  -

`git ls-files -v`

Or, use this to list only those marked as `assume-unchanged` - 

`git ls-files -v | grep "^[[:lower:]]"`

### Misc commands

#### Undo unstaged changes to files

`git checkout .`

#### Add new files and auto `rm` deleted files from staging

`git add -A`

or

`git add -u`

#### Revert to a specific commit and update commit message with info about the revert

`git revert 93b1`

#### Misc - to edit and sort

`git bundle create some file HEAD`

`git diff 1b6d > my.patch`

`git apply < my.patch`

`git reset --hard`

### git stash

`git stash` - save the changes you have made without commiting them

`git stash list` - list of your stash

`git stash apply` - bring back most recent stash to current branch

`git stash apply @{2}` - bring back a specific stash

`git stash pop` - bring back the most recent stash and immediately `drop` the stash

`git stash drop stash@{2}` - drop specific stash

## GitHub

Small section on making a new repo on GitHub and pushing to it from a local repo.

First ensure correct SSH pubkeys are setup on GitHub and on your local machine.

Ensure git variables on local machine match GitHub username and email -

`git config --global user.name "username"`

`git config --global user.email user@domain.org`

`git config --global github.user username`

`git config --global github.token 0123456789yourf0123456789token` (if you need API access)

Then create a new local repo -

`cd /newrepo`

`git init`

`touch README.md`

`git add .`

`git commit -m "Initial commit."`

Then create a new repo on GitHub.

After repo is made, set local repo to push to GitHub repo -

`git remote add origin git@github.com:Your-Username/awesomeProject.git`

To push to GitHub from local machine -

`git push -u origin master`

## Setting up a git server

Using gitolite and Debian.

NOTE: Does not work with Dropbear. Use OpenSSH Server.

Make sure git is installed with `aptitude install git git-core`.

Add user for gitolite -

`sudo adduser git`

Change to new user -

`su git`

Download gitolite source -

`git clone git://github.com/sitaramc/gitolite`

Install gitolite - 

`gitolite/src/gl-system-install`

Add bin to PATH in ~/.bashrc (or similar) - 

`PATH=/home/git/bin:$PATH`

Setup with public key -

`gl-setup ~/nameofkey.pub`

On client workstation (not the server), clone gitolite-admin to add users and repos -

`git clone git@server:gitolite-admin`

Add new keys to `gitolite-admin/keydir`. Edit `gitolite-admin/conf/gitolite.conf` to add new repos. Commit and push to server to apply changes.

Commit message:

Updated Git with section on Squash command.

Git.md, after:

## Commands

### Creating a new repo

`mkdir newrepo`

`cd newrepo`

`git init`

`touch README.md`

`git add .` (to add all files in directory to index)

`git commit -m 'Initial commit.'`

### Branches

#### Checking out a new branch

`git checkout -b development`

#### Add all files, then commit changes

`git add .`

`git commit -m 'Added files to development branch.'`

#### List all branches

`git branch`

#### Change branches

`git checkout master` (or whatever branch you want)

### Merging

Merge branches (this example is merging development branch with master branch, make sure you've checked out the master branch first) -

`git merge development`

#### Squash

Merge a branch as one commit.

#### Example workflow

Working on example branch `dev`

`git checkout master`

`git merge --squash dev`

This will present editor to allow you to enter a commit message that includes all commit messages for the `dev` branch -

`git commit`

Or, this will just use your commit message without the messages from `dev` branch - 

`git commit -m "Your commit message"`

### Cloning

Make sure you're not trying to clone a branch on the remote server that is already checked out, otherwise you'll get an error.

**NOTE:** This dosen't matter if cloning a bare repo.

`git clone ssh://user@loe.org:/git/repo nameofbranch`

#### Make changes, then push back to server

`git add .`

`git commit -m "Made changes"`

`git push`

Or you could `rsync` all files between servers, then init a git repo in the directory holding the files. Then push any changes to a new branch on the remote server -

`git push user@loe.org:/git/repo -b newbranch`

### Git log

Print past commits - 

`git log`

Print a single line for each past commit -

`git log --pretty=oneline`

### Checkout specific commit

#### Example workflow

Use `git log` to find a specific commit -

	commit ba6af9e85675a974917a86488bc81fcd3252d1a8
	Author: jl <jl@leagueofevil.org>
	Date:   Mon Oct 31 23:09:28 2011 +1100

	    Added Irssi.

To checkout that commit, `checkout` using the commit hash  -

`git checkout ba6af9e85675a974917a86488bc81fcd3252d1a8`

Or just using the first 4 characters (or however many characters you want) -

`git checkout ba6a`

### assume-unchanged

Mark a file so git will temporarily ignore changes to it -

`git update-index --assume-unchanged nameOfFile.txt`

To undo - 

`git update-index --no-assume-unchanged nameOfFile.txt`

List files. Those that are prefixed with a lowercase `h` are marked as `assume-unchanged`  -

`git ls-files -v`

Or, use this to list only those marked as `assume-unchanged` - 

`git ls-files -v | grep "^[[:lower:]]"`

### Misc commands

#### Undo unstaged changes to files

`git checkout .`

#### Add new files and auto `rm` deleted files from staging

`git add -A`

or

`git add -u`

#### Revert to a specific commit and update commit message with info about the revert

`git revert 93b1`

#### Misc - to edit and sort

`git bundle create some file HEAD`

`git diff 1b6d > my.patch`

`git apply < my.patch`

`git reset --hard`

### git stash

`git stash` - save the changes you have made without commiting them

`git stash list` - list of your stash

`git stash apply` - bring back most recent stash to current branch

`git stash apply @{2}` - bring back a specific stash

`git stash pop` - bring back the most recent stash and immediately `drop` the stash

`git stash drop stash@{2}` - drop specific stash

## GitHub

Small section on making a new repo on GitHub and pushing to it from a local repo.

First ensure correct SSH pubkeys are setup on GitHub and on your local machine.

Ensure git variables on local machine match GitHub username and email -

`git config --global user.name "username"`

`git config --global user.email user@domain.org`

`git config --global github.user username`

`git config --global github.token 0123456789yourf0123456789token` (if you need API access)

Then create a new local repo -

`cd /newrepo`

`git init`

`touch README.md`

`git add .`

`git commit -m "Initial commit."`

Then create a new repo on GitHub.

After repo is made, set local repo to push to GitHub repo -

`git remote add origin git@github.com:Your-Username/awesomeProject.git`

To push to GitHub from local machine -

`git push -u origin master`

## Setting up a git server

Using gitolite and Debian.

NOTE: Does not work with Dropbear. Use OpenSSH Server.

Make sure git is installed with `aptitude install git git-core`.

Add user for gitolite -

`sudo adduser git`

Change to new user -

`su git`

Download gitolite source -

`git clone git://github.com/sitaramc/gitolite`

Install gitolite - 

`gitolite/src/gl-system-install`

Add bin to PATH in ~/.bashrc (or similar) - 

`PATH=/home/git/bin:$PATH`

Setup with public key -

`gl-setup ~/nameofkey.pub`

On client workstation (not the server), clone gitolite-admin to add users and repos -

`git clone git@server:gitolite-admin`

Add new keys to `gitolite-admin/keydir`. Edit `gitolite-admin/conf/gitolite.conf` to add new repos. Commit and push to server to apply changes.
