Migration.md, before:

# Migration
A basic migration, based on jore's set-up which is based on jl's setup. Pretty much follow this sequence?

`This` is stuff you type.

## 1. Prepare old server

List of config files and other settings that have been customised:

Service | Path to conf and/or other needed files
--- | ---
nginx | /etc/nginx/sites-available/
 | /etc/nginx/ssl/ (certificates)
php5-fpm | /etc/php5/fpm/php.ini
 | /etc/php5/fpm/conf.d/20-apc.ini
mysql | /etc/mysql/my.cnf
exim4 | /etc/exim4/
awstats | /etc/awstats/
 | /var/lib/awstats/
memcached | /etc/memcached.conf
 
This is a good backup line for whole system:

`rsync -aAXvzh --dry-run -e "ssh -p PORT" --exclude={/dev,/proc,/sys,/tmp,/run,/mnt,/media,/lost+found,sysconfig/} user@server:/ /path/to/backup/folder/`
 
#### To have a look at things that have recently been modified:
`ls -larst`
 

### 1.? Dump mysql
`mysqldump -u databaseuser -p databasename > databasename.sql`

---

## 2. New server

### 2.1 SSH Settings
If needed, set up new keys on the local computer you want to hook up to the new server:

`mkdir ~/.ssh`

`chmod 700 ~/.ssh`

`ssh-keygen -t rsa`

Follow the prompts, store as **id_rsa** with no passphrase.

#### Find local key, copy to new server
Run locally: `ssh-copy-id [serveruser]@[sub.domain.com]` (adds keys to 'authorized_hosts', etc)

#### Disable root login
Edit `nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config`

Make sure :/Protocol says "Protocol 2"

##### Enable login only for certain users -

	Authentication:
	LoginGraceTime 120
	PermitRootLogin no
	AllowUsers jl eggdrop jore
	StrictModes yes

##### Change port

#### Reboot
Setup DNS for the new subdomain and reboot. Does key login work okay?

If old key doesn't work, you might need to run `ssh-add`

### 2.? Set up new users and *sudo*
`adduser username`

Set up a home directory if needed.

`mkdir /home/username`

`chown username:users /home/username`

`apt-get install sudo` if sudo not installed.

If you get error about CD, check /etc/apt/sources.list and remove the disc as a source if need be.

Run `visudo` and add this to the list to enable sudo for that user:

`username ALL=(ALL) ALL`

---

### 2.? Run the script?
The script sets up nginx, php-fpm and mysql. At the moment, it's in */root*, run with `bash LEMP*`, follow the prompts, etc.

### 2.? Rsync /var/www/ from old server to new server
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /var/www/ root@sub.domain.com:/var/www/`

Test with `-n` or `--dry-run` first!

Use *-varlpEAogzhP* as: (v) verbose, (a) archive, (r) recursive, (l) sym links, (p) preserve permissions, (E) preserve the file's executability, (A) preserve ACLs (implies --perms), (o) preserve owner, (g) preserve group, (z) compress, (h) human readable output numbers, (P) keep partially transferred files AND show progress during transfer

#### Also rsync */home* for user data.
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /home/ root@sub.domain.com:/home/`

### 2.? Setting up mysql

add user, setup the databse and grant permissions

`mysql -u root -p`

> mysql> `create database domain_databasename;`

> mysql> `GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON domain_databasename.* TO 'domain_username'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'PasswordHere';`

Import the SQL dump:

`mysql -u domain_username -p domain_databasename < domain_databasename.sql`

---

## 3. Working?
Check nginx conf

If 403 error, check that nginx is listening for the subdomain properly

---

## ?. Mail (exim4)

`apt-get install exim4`

Make sure `/etc/hostname` `/etc/mailname/` are set to: `sub.domain.com` and that `/etc/hosts` is properly set to point to localhost and sub.domain.com NOT the FQDN. This is so mail can be accepted at the external mailboxes (someone@domain.com) instead of local users.

#### Rsync over confs and settings from old server:
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /etc/exim4/ root@sub.domain.com:/etc/exim4/`

#### Set up aliases to forward all mail for root to external address:
`nano /etc/aliases`

Edit the file thus:

```
# /etc/aliases
mailer-daemon: postmaster
postmaster: root
nobody: root
hostmaster: root
usenet: root
news: root
webmaster: root
www: root
ftp: root
abuse: root
noc: root
security: root
backup: root
root: someaddress@someotherplace.com
```
#### May need to run configure to set up the new server not to accept any mail locally.
`dpkg-reconfigure exim4-config`

"Internet site; mail is sent and received directly using SMTP" [Enter]

"sub.domain.com" [Enter]

"Listen on 127.0.0.1 ; ::1" [Enter]

Wipe out all other destinations where mail should be accepted. [Enter]

Don't relay mail. [Enter]

#### Working?
`mail -s Test address@domain.com < "This is a test."`

#### Emails from broken crontabs
Check out `cd /etc/cron.d; ls -la` and may need to clean those files up or simply del them.

---

## ?. Setting up Awstats
`apt-get install awstats`

`apt-get install python`

#### Copy confs from:
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /etc/awstats/ root@sub.domain.com:/etc/awstats/`

#### Copy over record of archived stats
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /var/lib/awstats/domain.com/ root@sub.domain.com:/var/lib/awstats/domain.com/`

#### Setup awstats to update before log rotate
Some info [here](http://awstats.sourceforge.net/docs/awstats_faq.html#ROTATE), but basically, you add this line `/usr/share/doc/awstats/examples/awstats_updateall.pl now -awstatsprog=/usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl > /dev/null 2>&1` to */etc/logrotate.d/nginx* which runs before the nginx logs rotate. I like to use /dev/null as this keeps things quiet. Put it in place prerotate so it looks something like:

```nginx
/var/log/nginx/*.log {
        daily
        missingok
        rotate 30
        compress
        delaycompress
        notifempty
        create 0640 www-data adm
        sharedscripts

        #email a copy of the log to here
        #mail someone@domain.com

        prerotate
                #jore - run perl script that updates ALL awstats configs before rotating logs, old single domain below commented out
                /usr/share/doc/awstats/examples/awstats_updateall.pl now -awstatsprog=/usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl > /dev/null 2>&1
                #/usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl -config=domain.com -update -dir=/dev/null

                if [ -d /etc/logrotate.d/httpd-prerotate ]; then \
                        run-parts /etc/logrotate.d/httpd-prerotate; \
                fi \
        endscript

        postrotate
                [ ! -f /run/nginx.pid ] || kill -USR1 `cat /run/nginx.pid`
        endscript
}
```

#### Remove the awstats cron since we're doing log rotate instead
`rm /etc/cron.d/awstats`

#### Install IP and GeoIPFree plugins for awstats
`apt-get install libnet-ip-perl libgeo-ipfree-perl`

#### Working?
Check in browser to see if all is working and awstats does dynamic compile by clicking on the "Update now" link.

---

## ?. Setting new server timezone
`dpkg-reconfigure tzdata`

Verify with:

`date`

##### Setting time and date
`date -s "31 Mar 2015 18:00:00"`

##### Install NTP service to sync the clock
`apt-get install ntp`

---

## ?. Install fail2ban
`apt-get install fail2ban`

---

## ?. Install Uncomplicated FireWall
`apt-get install ufw`

####Basic usage

`ufw status`

`ufw disable`

`ufw enable`

####Defaults
UFW’s defaults are to deny all incoming connections and allow all outgoing connections. This means anyone trying to reach your server would not be able to connect, while any application within the server would be able to reach the outside world. To set the defaults used by UFW, you would use the following commands:

`ufw default deny incoming`

and

`ufw default allow outgoing`

Note: if you want to be a little bit more restrictive, you can also deny all outgoing requests as well. The necessity of this is debatable, but if you have a public-facing server, it could help prevent against any kind of remote shell connections. It does make your firewall more cumbersome to manage because you’ll have to set up rules for all outgoing connections as well. You can set this as the default with the following:

`ufw default deny outgoing`

####Allow Connections
`ufw allow ssh`

`ufw allow 22/tcp`

####Other Connections We Might Need
`ufw allow www`

`ufw allow 443/tcp` for SSL

`ufw allow 873/tcp` for Rsync?

####Port Ranges
You can also specify port ranges with UFW. To allow ports 1000 through 2000, use the command:
`ufw allow 1000:2000/tcp`

If you want UDP:
`ufw allow 1000:2000/udp`

####IP Addresses
You can also specify IP addresses. For example, if I wanted to allow connections from a specific IP address (say my work or home address), I’d use this command:

`ufw allow from 192.168.255.255`

####Denying Connections

Our default set up is to deny all incoming connections. This makes the firewall rules easier to administer since we are only selectively allowing certain ports and IP addresses through. However, if you want to flip it and open up all your server’s ports (not recommended), you could allow all connections and then restrictively deny ports you didn’t want to give access to by replacing “allow” with “deny” in the commands above. For example:

`ufw allow 80/tcp`

would allow access to port 80 while:

`ufw deny 80/tcp`

would deny access to port 80.

####Deleting Rules
There are two options to delete rules. The most straightforward one is to use the following syntax:

`ufw delete allow ssh`

`ufw delete allow 80/tcp`

or

`ufw delete allow 1000:2000/tcp`

This can get tricky when you have rules that are long and complex.

A simpler, two-step alternative is to type:

`ufw status numbered`

which will have UFW list out all the current rules in a numbered list. Then, we issue the command:

`ufw delete [number]`

where “[number]” is the line number from the previous command.

####Resetting Everything
If you mess it all up:

`ufw reset`

---

## ?. Change login banner

Move old file as backup, `sudo mv /etc/motd /etc/motd.bak`

Create new `/etc/motd` file (post-login message), save.

Add/edit following line in `/etc/default/rcS` -- `EDITMOTD=no`

`sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config` and uncomment the Banner line with `/etc/issue.net`

`sudo nano /etc/issue.net` -- displayed on connect, pre-login

`sudo nano /etc/motd` -- displayed post-login

have a look at `/etc/update-motd.d/00-header` (whats going on there?)

`/etc/init.d/ssh restart` if done properly, won't all disappear on reboot!

---

## Fiddle with memcached
Used notes [here](http://www.pontikis.net/blog/install-memcached-php-debian) for initial setup, although this was for Apache.

#### Prerequisites 
Just rsync over *my.cnf* (there's custom settings in there for mysql which get used for memcached) and the rest in terms of handling and parsing is done in nginx confs that already exist. A sample config is [here](http://download.kyup.com/wordpress/conf.d) though. Wordpress requires the [nginx cache optimizer plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/nginx-cache-optimizer/) to use memcached.

`apt-get install memcached`

After installed, `nano /etc/memcached.conf` and check it. You may need to rsync older conf if any changes.

Need to also install PHP extension: `apt-get install php5-memcached`

---

## Backup ideas
#### Cronic
Cronic is awesome. Will only send emails about cronjobs if they fail. [More here](http://habilis.net/cronic/).

`wget https://mrkmg.com/install_cronic.sh` and run `sh install_cronic.sh`

Our backup bash script is called *make*, ensure it's executable: `chmod 755 make`

#### Add the *make* bash script to crontab
We want to run the *make* script every arvo at around 5:30pm, our time (should also be localserver time, check this is set and clocks are the same!), as 5:30pm AUD is the offpeak time for site according to logs from *awstats*.

Edit crontab for backup user `crontab -u backup -e`, add this:
```
30 17 * * * cronic /location/of/backup/make
```

Also set another cronjob to cleanup any sqldumps every day that are over certain age. Run each day to remove files that are say two weeks old on server side and then on the backup side perhaps cleanup files over 2 months old. Time for cleanup starts at 7:13pm to make sure this is very much after *./backup/make* can be finished.

`13 19 * * * cronic find /location/of/backup/*.tar.gz -mtime +14 -delete`

##### If you get 'sdin not tty' kind of error at remote host:
Add the following to *.bashrc* file in homedir: `[[ $- != *i* ]] && return`

---

## More Cron
An example of crontab. First runs script to clean the homepage cache every 5 minutes, others as above for backup purposes.

```
*/5 * * * * bash /location/of/clean-homepage-hypercache
30 17 * * * cronic /location/of/backup/make
13 19 * * * cronic find /location/of/backup/*.tar.gz -mtime +14 -delete
```

---

Commit message:

Added apticron and monitoring bandwidth tools

Migration.md, after:

# Migration
A basic migration, based on jore's set-up which is based on jl's setup. Pretty much follow this sequence?

`This` is stuff you type.

## 1. Prepare old server

List of config files and other settings that have been customised:

Service | Path to conf and/or other needed files
--- | ---
nginx | /etc/nginx/sites-available/
 | /etc/nginx/ssl/ (certificates)
php5-fpm | /etc/php5/fpm/php.ini
 | /etc/php5/fpm/conf.d/20-apc.ini
mysql | /etc/mysql/my.cnf
exim4 | /etc/exim4/
awstats | /etc/awstats/
 | /var/lib/awstats/
memcached | /etc/memcached.conf
 
This is a good backup line for whole system:

`rsync -aAXvzh --dry-run -e "ssh -p PORT" --exclude={/dev,/proc,/sys,/tmp,/run,/mnt,/media,/lost+found,sysconfig/} user@server:/ /path/to/backup/folder/`
 
#### To have a look at things that have recently been modified:
`ls -larst`
 

### 1.? Dump mysql
`mysqldump -u databaseuser -p databasename > databasename.sql`

---

## 2. New server

### 2.1 SSH Settings
If needed, set up new keys on the local computer you want to hook up to the new server:

`mkdir ~/.ssh`

`chmod 700 ~/.ssh`

`ssh-keygen -t rsa`

Follow the prompts, store as **id_rsa** with no passphrase.

#### Find local key, copy to new server
Run locally: `ssh-copy-id [serveruser]@[sub.domain.com]` (adds keys to 'authorized_hosts', etc)

#### Disable root login
Edit `nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config`

Make sure :/Protocol says "Protocol 2"

##### Enable login only for certain users -

	Authentication:
	LoginGraceTime 120
	PermitRootLogin no
	AllowUsers jl eggdrop jore
	StrictModes yes

##### Change port

#### Reboot
Setup DNS for the new subdomain and reboot. Does key login work okay?

If old key doesn't work, you might need to run `ssh-add`

### 2.? Set up new users and *sudo*
`adduser username`

Set up a home directory if needed.

`mkdir /home/username`

`chown username:users /home/username`

`apt-get install sudo` if sudo not installed.

If you get error about CD, check /etc/apt/sources.list and remove the disc as a source if need be.

Run `visudo` and add this to the list to enable sudo for that user:

`username ALL=(ALL) ALL`

---

### 2.? Run the script?
The script sets up nginx, php-fpm and mysql. At the moment, it's in */root*, run with `bash LEMP*`, follow the prompts, etc.

### 2.? Rsync /var/www/ from old server to new server
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /var/www/ root@sub.domain.com:/var/www/`

Test with `-n` or `--dry-run` first!

Use *-varlpEAogzhP* as: (v) verbose, (a) archive, (r) recursive, (l) sym links, (p) preserve permissions, (E) preserve the file's executability, (A) preserve ACLs (implies --perms), (o) preserve owner, (g) preserve group, (z) compress, (h) human readable output numbers, (P) keep partially transferred files AND show progress during transfer

#### Also rsync */home* for user data.
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /home/ root@sub.domain.com:/home/`

### 2.? Setting up mysql

add user, setup the databse and grant permissions

`mysql -u root -p`

> mysql> `create database domain_databasename;`

> mysql> `GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON domain_databasename.* TO 'domain_username'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'PasswordHere';`

Import the SQL dump:

`mysql -u domain_username -p domain_databasename < domain_databasename.sql`

---

## 3. Working?
Check nginx conf

If 403 error, check that nginx is listening for the subdomain properly

---

## ?. Mail (exim4)

`apt-get install exim4`

Make sure `/etc/hostname` `/etc/mailname/` are set to: `sub.domain.com` and that `/etc/hosts` is properly set to point to localhost and sub.domain.com NOT the FQDN. This is so mail can be accepted at the external mailboxes (someone@domain.com) instead of local users.

#### Rsync over confs and settings from old server:
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /etc/exim4/ root@sub.domain.com:/etc/exim4/`

#### Set up aliases to forward all mail for root to external address:
`nano /etc/aliases`

Edit the file thus:

```
# /etc/aliases
mailer-daemon: postmaster
postmaster: root
nobody: root
hostmaster: root
usenet: root
news: root
webmaster: root
www: root
ftp: root
abuse: root
noc: root
security: root
backup: root
root: someaddress@someotherplace.com
```
#### May need to run configure to set up the new server not to accept any mail locally.
`dpkg-reconfigure exim4-config`

"Internet site; mail is sent and received directly using SMTP" [Enter]

"sub.domain.com" [Enter]

"Listen on 127.0.0.1 ; ::1" [Enter]

Wipe out all other destinations where mail should be accepted. [Enter]

Don't relay mail. [Enter]

#### Working?
`mail -s Test address@domain.com < "This is a test."`

#### Emails from broken crontabs
Check out `cd /etc/cron.d; ls -la` and may need to clean those files up or simply del them.

---

## ?. Setting up Awstats
`apt-get install awstats`

`apt-get install python`

#### Copy confs from:
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /etc/awstats/ root@sub.domain.com:/etc/awstats/`

#### Copy over record of archived stats
`rsync -varlpEAogzhP -e "ssh -p PORT" /var/lib/awstats/domain.com/ root@sub.domain.com:/var/lib/awstats/domain.com/`

#### Setup awstats to update before log rotate
Some info [here](http://awstats.sourceforge.net/docs/awstats_faq.html#ROTATE), but basically, you add this line `/usr/share/doc/awstats/examples/awstats_updateall.pl now -awstatsprog=/usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl > /dev/null 2>&1` to */etc/logrotate.d/nginx* which runs before the nginx logs rotate. I like to use /dev/null as this keeps things quiet. Put it in place prerotate so it looks something like:

```nginx
/var/log/nginx/*.log {
        daily
        missingok
        rotate 30
        compress
        delaycompress
        notifempty
        create 0640 www-data adm
        sharedscripts

        #email a copy of the log to here
        #mail someone@domain.com

        prerotate
                #jore - run perl script that updates ALL awstats configs before rotating logs, old single domain below commented out
                /usr/share/doc/awstats/examples/awstats_updateall.pl now -awstatsprog=/usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl > /dev/null 2>&1
                #/usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl -config=domain.com -update -dir=/dev/null

                if [ -d /etc/logrotate.d/httpd-prerotate ]; then \
                        run-parts /etc/logrotate.d/httpd-prerotate; \
                fi \
        endscript

        postrotate
                [ ! -f /run/nginx.pid ] || kill -USR1 `cat /run/nginx.pid`
        endscript
}
```

#### Remove the awstats cron since we're doing log rotate instead
`rm /etc/cron.d/awstats`

#### Install IP and GeoIPFree plugins for awstats
`apt-get install libnet-ip-perl libgeo-ipfree-perl`

#### Working?
Check in browser to see if all is working and awstats does dynamic compile by clicking on the "Update now" link.

---

## ?. Setting new server timezone
`dpkg-reconfigure tzdata`

Verify with:

`date`

##### Setting time and date
`date -s "31 Mar 2015 18:00:00"`

##### Install NTP service to sync the clock
`apt-get install ntp`

---

## ?. Install fail2ban
`apt-get install fail2ban`

---

## ?. Install Uncomplicated FireWall
`apt-get install ufw`

####Basic usage

`ufw status`

`ufw disable`

`ufw enable`

####Defaults
UFW’s defaults are to deny all incoming connections and allow all outgoing connections. This means anyone trying to reach your server would not be able to connect, while any application within the server would be able to reach the outside world. To set the defaults used by UFW, you would use the following commands:

`ufw default deny incoming`

and

`ufw default allow outgoing`

Note: if you want to be a little bit more restrictive, you can also deny all outgoing requests as well. The necessity of this is debatable, but if you have a public-facing server, it could help prevent against any kind of remote shell connections. It does make your firewall more cumbersome to manage because you’ll have to set up rules for all outgoing connections as well. You can set this as the default with the following:

`ufw default deny outgoing`

####Allow Connections
`ufw allow ssh`

`ufw allow 22/tcp`

####Other Connections We Might Need
`ufw allow www`

`ufw allow 443/tcp` for SSL

`ufw allow 873/tcp` for Rsync?

####Port Ranges
You can also specify port ranges with UFW. To allow ports 1000 through 2000, use the command:
`ufw allow 1000:2000/tcp`

If you want UDP:
`ufw allow 1000:2000/udp`

####IP Addresses
You can also specify IP addresses. For example, if I wanted to allow connections from a specific IP address (say my work or home address), I’d use this command:

`ufw allow from 192.168.255.255`

####Denying Connections

Our default set up is to deny all incoming connections. This makes the firewall rules easier to administer since we are only selectively allowing certain ports and IP addresses through. However, if you want to flip it and open up all your server’s ports (not recommended), you could allow all connections and then restrictively deny ports you didn’t want to give access to by replacing “allow” with “deny” in the commands above. For example:

`ufw allow 80/tcp`

would allow access to port 80 while:

`ufw deny 80/tcp`

would deny access to port 80.

####Deleting Rules
There are two options to delete rules. The most straightforward one is to use the following syntax:

`ufw delete allow ssh`

`ufw delete allow 80/tcp`

or

`ufw delete allow 1000:2000/tcp`

This can get tricky when you have rules that are long and complex.

A simpler, two-step alternative is to type:

`ufw status numbered`

which will have UFW list out all the current rules in a numbered list. Then, we issue the command:

`ufw delete [number]`

where “[number]” is the line number from the previous command.

####Resetting Everything
If you mess it all up:

`ufw reset`

---

## ?. Change login banner

Move old file as backup, `sudo mv /etc/motd /etc/motd.bak`

Create new `/etc/motd` file (post-login message), save.

Add/edit following line in `/etc/default/rcS` -- `EDITMOTD=no`

`sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config` and uncomment the Banner line with `/etc/issue.net`

`sudo nano /etc/issue.net` -- displayed on connect, pre-login

`sudo nano /etc/motd` -- displayed post-login

have a look at `/etc/update-motd.d/00-header` (whats going on there?)

`/etc/init.d/ssh restart` if done properly, won't all disappear on reboot!

---

## Fiddle with memcached
Used notes [here](http://www.pontikis.net/blog/install-memcached-php-debian) for initial setup, although this was for Apache.

#### Prerequisites 
Just rsync over *my.cnf* (there's custom settings in there for mysql which get used for memcached) and the rest in terms of handling and parsing is done in nginx confs that already exist. A sample config is [here](http://download.kyup.com/wordpress/conf.d) though. Wordpress requires the [nginx cache optimizer plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/nginx-cache-optimizer/) to use memcached.

`apt-get install memcached`

After installed, `nano /etc/memcached.conf` and check it. You may need to rsync older conf if any changes.

Need to also install PHP extension: `apt-get install php5-memcached`

---

## Backup ideas
#### Cronic
Cronic is awesome. Will only send emails about cronjobs if they fail. [More here](http://habilis.net/cronic/).

`wget https://mrkmg.com/install_cronic.sh` and run `sh install_cronic.sh`

Our backup bash script is called *make*, ensure it's executable: `chmod 755 make`

#### Add the *make* bash script to crontab
We want to run the *make* script every arvo at around 5:30pm, our time (should also be localserver time, check this is set and clocks are the same!), as 5:30pm AUD is the offpeak time for site according to logs from *awstats*.

Edit crontab for backup user `crontab -u backup -e`, add this:
```
30 17 * * * cronic /location/of/backup/make
```

Also set another cronjob to cleanup any sqldumps every day that are over certain age. Run each day to remove files that are say two weeks old on server side and then on the backup side perhaps cleanup files over 2 months old. Time for cleanup starts at 7:13pm to make sure this is very much after *./backup/make* can be finished.

`13 19 * * * cronic find /location/of/backup/*.tar.gz -mtime +14 -delete`

##### If you get 'sdin not tty' kind of error at remote host:
Add the following to *.bashrc* file in homedir: `[[ $- != *i* ]] && return`

---

## More Cron
An example of crontab. First runs script to clean the homepage cache every 5 minutes, others as above for backup purposes.

```
*/5 * * * * bash /location/of/clean-homepage-hypercache
30 17 * * * cronic /location/of/backup/make
13 19 * * * cronic find /location/of/backup/*.tar.gz -mtime +14 -delete
```

### Apticron
Have [e-mail sent out when security updates are pending](https://debian-administration.org/article/491/Automatic_package_update_nagging_with_apticron).

`apt-get install apticron`

---

## Monitoring bandwidth
Some [good tools to monitor bandwidth](http://www.binarytides.com/linux-commands-monitor-network/):

`iftop` does OK job of showing connections and cumulative output.

`slurm -s -i eth0` is probably best for stats and keeps track of packets sent/recieved in MB.

`service vnstat status` background daemon for logging, ok.

`speedometer -r eth0 -t eth0` best graphs.

---

##
