Nmap.md, before:

Ping local net and display hosts that are up.

`nmap -sP 192.168.0.*`

Scan local net and list OS, open ports, etc.

`nmap -sS -O 192.168.0.*`

## Ultimate nmap scan

Stolen from - http://richrines.com/post/10886870567/ultimate-nmap-scan

`sudo nmap --spoof-mac Cisco --data-length 9 \ -f -D 172.168.200.200,RND:5,ME -v -n -O -sS -sV \ -oA /home/rich/metasploit/172.168.1.1 --log-errors \ -append-output -p T:1-1024,1433,2222,2249,7778,8080,9999 \ --randomize-hosts 192.178.1.1 172.168.1.2`

### Flag by flag breakdown -

—spoof-mac Cisco: Spoof your mac address, other valid options would be a complete mac address, 0 for a completely random mac, a vendor’s OUI prefix, or another vendor name

—data-length 9: Appends 9 random bytes to most of the packets it sends

-f: Fragment packets

-D 192.168.200.200,RND:5,ME: Causes decoy scans to run simultaneously with your actual scan to help ids evasion and cause far more traffic in system logs

-v: Increases the verbosity of the output, you can also run -v -v to increase the verbosity to a higher level

-n: No DNS resolution

-O: Enables OS detection, less aggressive than nmap’s advanced OS detection and is usually just as good

-sS: Stealth TCP SYN scan, the most popular scan option. It is both quick and unobtrusive because it never completes any TCP connections.

-sV: Enables version detection

-oA /home/rich/metasploit/172.168.1.1: Output to all formats (normal, greppable, and XML) and where to save the information

—log-errors: Self explanatory 

-append-output: If you prefer to keep scan results in a single file and keep appending new information to it this option is perfect, if you would like to create new files for various reasons leave this flag out 

-p T:1-1024,1433,2222,2249,7778,8080,9999: Specifies which TCP ports to scan. The ports specified in list list are generally the ones that provide the most valuable information. If not interested in specifying each one a similar option is the —top-ports followed by an integer of one or greater. The integer is the N highest ratio of ports found in nmap services. Finally to specify UDP ports you would replace T: with U:

—randomize-hosts 192.178.1.1 172.168.1.2: Randomizes the target host order

### Optional:

—traceroute: To trace path to host over various hops

-A: Aggressive mode, this could be used instead of -sV -O —traceroute amongst other things. Helps keep the list of flags one needs to know shorter but would be considered intrusive.

-T paranoid|sneaky|polite|agressive|insane: Various timing controls for your scans

-PN: No Ping, to determine active machines to scan more robustly later

Commit message:

Updated Nmap with a new scan.

Nmap.md, after:

Ping local net and display hosts that are up.

`nmap -sP 192.168.0.*`

Scan local net and list OS, open ports, etc.

`nmap -sS -O 192.168.0.*`

Do a fast scan of the local network with less output than the default scan. Also only scan a certain range of IPs -

`nmap -sS -O -F 192.168.0.1-100`

## Ultimate nmap scan

Stolen from - http://richrines.com/post/10886870567/ultimate-nmap-scan

`sudo nmap --spoof-mac Cisco --data-length 9 \ -f -D 172.168.200.200,RND:5,ME -v -n -O -sS -sV \ -oA /home/rich/metasploit/172.168.1.1 --log-errors \ -append-output -p T:1-1024,1433,2222,2249,7778,8080,9999 \ --randomize-hosts 192.178.1.1 172.168.1.2`

### Flag by flag breakdown -

—spoof-mac Cisco: Spoof your mac address, other valid options would be a complete mac address, 0 for a completely random mac, a vendor’s OUI prefix, or another vendor name

—data-length 9: Appends 9 random bytes to most of the packets it sends

-f: Fragment packets

-D 192.168.200.200,RND:5,ME: Causes decoy scans to run simultaneously with your actual scan to help ids evasion and cause far more traffic in system logs

-v: Increases the verbosity of the output, you can also run -v -v to increase the verbosity to a higher level

-n: No DNS resolution

-O: Enables OS detection, less aggressive than nmap’s advanced OS detection and is usually just as good

-sS: Stealth TCP SYN scan, the most popular scan option. It is both quick and unobtrusive because it never completes any TCP connections.

-sV: Enables version detection

-oA /home/rich/metasploit/172.168.1.1: Output to all formats (normal, greppable, and XML) and where to save the information

—log-errors: Self explanatory 

-append-output: If you prefer to keep scan results in a single file and keep appending new information to it this option is perfect, if you would like to create new files for various reasons leave this flag out 

-p T:1-1024,1433,2222,2249,7778,8080,9999: Specifies which TCP ports to scan. The ports specified in list list are generally the ones that provide the most valuable information. If not interested in specifying each one a similar option is the —top-ports followed by an integer of one or greater. The integer is the N highest ratio of ports found in nmap services. Finally to specify UDP ports you would replace T: with U:

—randomize-hosts 192.178.1.1 172.168.1.2: Randomizes the target host order

### Optional:

—traceroute: To trace path to host over various hops

-A: Aggressive mode, this could be used instead of -sV -O —traceroute amongst other things. Helps keep the list of flags one needs to know shorter but would be considered intrusive.

-T paranoid|sneaky|polite|agressive|insane: Various timing controls for your scans

-PN: No Ping, to determine active machines to scan more robustly later
